We found instructions for building a steering/ race car robot and built it so that we could learn how steering robots work as this is our first time building one. 

There is a medium motor at the front which changes the direction of the 2 front wheels from left to right, hence changing the direction the robot was moving and steering the robot. However, it uses parallel steering. This means that the 2 front wheels were parallel to each other. This is not ideal as when turning, the inner and outer wheels have to move at different angles as they have to cover different distances. Hence, the wheels will slip. 

The 2 back wheels are controlled by 2 different motors, which allow the wheels to turn at different speeds. This is important because when turning, the wheels have to move at different speeds as the outer wheel is further from the point the robot is turning about, so circumference is larger and the outer wheel has to cover a larger distance. 

Another disadvantage of this design is the large distance between the front wheels and the back wheels, also known as the wheelbase. A smaller wheelbase would have been better as it would allow the robot to make sharper turns. 

The design also made use of an ultrasonic sensor to detect obstacles in front of the robot. However, the ultrasonic sensor does not detect the colour of the obstacles in front of it. This has to be changed to either a colour sensor or a camera as the robot needs to detect the colour of the traffic signs (red or green) so that it knows which direction to turn. 



next designs: 


The wheelbase of the robot is much smaller, allowing the robot to make sharper turns. The robot is also now within the size limit. We reduced the length of the robot by removing the ev3 brick between the motors controlling the back wheels and the motor controlling the front wheels. The ev3 brick was replaced by Raspberry Pi Model 4B, which would be placed on top of the motors to reduce the length of the robot. The longer large motors controlling the back wheels were also replaced by shorter medium motors. The motor controlling the front wheels was also placed vertically. 



Eventually, we shortened the length between the front wheels and the motor controlling the front wheels. However, the 2 front wheels were still parallel. 

ackermann steering: 

pictures from: http://datagenetics.com/blog/december12016/index.html
The picture on the left shows the steering mechanism with the 2 front wheels parallel to each other. This was the original steering mechanism used in our robot. However, this was changed as the wheel(s) would slip due to the incorrect angle. Furthermore, when both wheels are turned at the same angle, the centre of rotation for each of the wheels would be different. 
Hence, we used ackermann steering, which is shown in the picture on the right. Each of the front wheels would be turned at a different angle, with the inner wheel having a larger angle. The centre of rotation of the wheels would be at the same point. This would prevent the wheels from slipping. 

